Offline-First TWA doc (#762)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/android/trusted-web-activity/offline-first/index.md

For that reason, if the user doesn't have connectivity during the first app
launch, instead of the custom offline experience, the network error page is
shown.

An example of this scenario might take place after the user downloads the PWA
from the Play Store. If the user doesn't have connectivity when trying to open
the app for the first time, the service worker won't be yet available to show
the offline fallback page, therefore, the standard error page will be shown,
leading to a bad experience.

{% Img src="image/26V1DWN36MZr3mUo8ChSBlCpzp43/SixNJuHH01eY6u96Owo1.png",
alt="twa offline - standard offline page", width="533", height="372" %}

This guide explains how to display your own Activity in this situation, by
checking the status of the network before launching the Trusted Web Activity, in
order to decide if an offline Android screen should be shown.

{% Aside %} A prerequisite of this guide is to have a Trusted Web Activity app
running. Follow the steps in the [Integration
Guide](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/android/trusted-web-activity/integration-guide/)
to create a basic Trusted Web Activity project. {% endAside%}

## Create a custom LauncherActivity

> The first step is to create a custom launcher activity. This is the `Activity`
> that will contain the offline screen to show if the first time the user opens
> the app there's no connectivity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is to create a custom launcher activity. This `Activity`
that will contain the offline screen to show if there's no connectivity
the first time a user opens the app.
```

public class OfflineFirstTWALauncherActivity extends LauncherActivity {

}
```

Next, register the Activity in `AndroidManifest.xml`:

```xml
<activity android:name=".OfflineFirstTWALauncherActivity" android:theme="@style/Theme.Design.NoActionBar">
    <intent-filter>
        <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />
        <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
    </intent-filter>
    <!-- Edit android:value to change the url opened by the Trusted Web Activity -->
    <meta-data android:name="android.support.customtabs.trusted.DEFAULT_URL" android:value="https://airhorner.com" />
    <!-- This intent-filter adds the Trusted Web Activity to the Android Launcher -->
    <intent-filter>
        <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />
        <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
        <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />
        <!-- Edit android:host to handle links to the target URL -->
        <data android:host="airhorner.com" android:scheme="https" />
    </intent-filter>
</activity>
```

The previous code registers `OfflineFirstTWALauncherActivity` as a launcher

> Activity and defines [https://airhorner.com](https://airhorner.com) as the URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
activity and defines [https://airhorner.com](https://airhorner.com) as the URL
```

to open when the TWA launches. 

## Handle offline scenarios

> First, inside the Activity, override the method `shouldLaunchImmediately()` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, inside the Activity, override the `shouldLaunchImmediately()` method and
```

make it return `false`, so that the Trusted Web Activity won't launch

> immediately, and you can add some extra checks before the initial launch:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
immediately. You can also add extra checks before the initial launch:
```

```java
@Override
protected boolean shouldLaunchImmediately() {
    // launchImmediately() returns `false` so we can check connection
    // and then render a fallback page or launch the Trusted Web Activity with `launchTwa()`.
    return false;
}
```

Override the `onCreate()` method to check the network status before the TWA
launches. Add a call to `tryLaunchTwa()`, a helper method that will contain that
logic:

```java
@Override
protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
    tryLaunchTwa();
}
```

Next, implement `tryLaunchTwa()`:

```java
private void tryLaunchTwa() {
    // If TWA has already launched successfully, launch TWA immediately.
    // Otherwise, check connection status. If online, launch the Trusted Web Activity with `launchTwa()`.
    // Otherwise, if offline, render the offline fallback screen.
    if (hasTwaLaunchedSuccessfully()) {
        launchTwa();
    } else if (isOnline()) {
        firstTimeLaunchTwa();
    } else {
        renderOfflineFallback();
    }
}
```

The previous code handles three scenarios:

> - If the TWA has launched previously, this means that the service worker has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the TWA has launched previously, the service worker has
```

  been registered, and the PWA will be able to respond offline. In that case,

>   call the method `launchTwa()` defined in the parent class to launch the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  call `launchTwa()`, defined in the parent class, to launch the
```

  Trusted Web Activity directly.
- If the TWA hasn't launched previously and the user is online, launch the
  Trusted Web Activity for the first time using the `firstTimeLaunchTwa()`
  method that you'll implement later.
- If the TWA hasn't already launched and the user is offline, render the native
  offline fallback screen.

## Implement helper methods

The final step is to implement the helper methods called by the previous code.

> Here's how the code to check of offline state `isOnline()` looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's the code for checking offline state `isOnline()`:
```

```java
private boolean isOnline() {
    ConnectivityManager connectivityManager = (ConnectivityManager) getSystemService(Context.CONNECTIVITY_SERVICE);
    NetworkInfo activeNetworkInfo = connectivityManager.getActiveNetworkInfo();
    return activeNetworkInfo != null && activeNetworkInfo.isConnected();
}
```

> Next, implement `hasTwaLaunchedSuccessfully()` used to check if the TWA has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, implement `hasTwaLaunchedSuccessfully()`, which checks if the TWA has
```

launched at least once:

```java
private boolean hasTwaLaunchedSuccessfully() {
    // Return `true` if the preference "twa_launched_successfully" has already been set.
    SharedPreferences sharedPref = getSharedPreferences(getString(R.string.twa_offline_first_preferences_file_key), Context.MODE_PRIVATE);
    return sharedPref.getBoolean(getString(R.string.twa_launched_successfully), false);
}
```

The previous code calls the `launchTWA()` from the parent class, and saves the

> `twa_launched_successfully` flag in shared preferences, to indicate that the TWA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`twa_launched_successfully` flag in shared preferences, to indicate that the TWA
```
```suggestion
`twa_launched_successfully` flag in shared preferences. This indeicates that the TWA
```

has launched successfully, at least once.

> The remaining helper method: `renderOfflineFallback()` renders an Android

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The remaining helper method, `renderOfflineFallback()` renders an Android
```

offline screen. 

```java
private void renderOfflineFallback() {
    setContentView(R.layout.activity_offline_first_twa);

    Button retryBtn = this.findViewById(R.id.retry_btn);
    retryBtn.setOnClickListener(new View.OnClickListener() {
        public void onClick(View v) {
            // Check connection status. If online, launch the Trusted Web Activity for the first time.
            if (isOnline()) firstTimeLaunchTwa();
        }
    });
}
```

Fort his demo, we have defined the `activity_offline_first_twa` layout, which
contains a button to retry, which will, in time, to execute

> `firstTimeLaunchTwa()` after checking connection:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`firstTimeLaunchTwa()` after checking the connection.
```

Reviewer: Colons aren't used to introduce images. If you feel that the image needs to be referenced in text, add something like, 'see the image below'.

{% Img src="image/26V1DWN36MZr3mUo8ChSBlCpzp43/pzkHBtYxsTXIdsfjFfYF.png",
alt="twa offline - custom offline screen", width="533", height="394" %}

## Conclusion

- The first time a user launches a Progressive Web App (PWA) via Trusted Web
  Activity, the service worker won't yet be available.
- To avoid showing the standard offline screen if the user has no connectivity,
  you can detect the offline condition and show a fallback offline screen
  instead.
- In this guide you learned how to implement that strategy. If you are

>   interested in checking the code we used throughout this guide, the complete
>   solution can be found
>   [here](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/android-browser-helper/tree/main/demos/twa-offline-first).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  interested in checking the code we used throughout this guide, you can find
  the complete solution in the [Offline First TWA
  Demo](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/android-browser-helper/tree/main/demos/twa-offline-first).
```
